Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Main Page Main Page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Abstract Wikipedia Wikimedia Commons Wikimedia Foundation MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikimedia Outreach Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikifunctions Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Welcome to Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 275,264 active editors 7,193,184 articles in English From today's featured article Eastern spiny mouse Rodents are mammals of the order Rodentia, characterized by two pairs of continuously growing incisors, one pair in the upper jaw and one pair in the lower jaw. About forty percent of all species of mammals are rodents, and they are found on all continents except Antarctica. They are the most diversified mammalian order, including mice, rats, squirrels, prairie dogs, porcupines, beavers, guinea pigs and hamsters. There are arboreal, burrowing, and semi-aquatic species. While the largest species, the capybara, can weigh as much as 66 kg (146 lb), many rodents weigh less than 100 g (3.5 oz) and have robust bodies, short limbs and long tails. They use their sharp incisors to gnaw food, defend themselves, and shape their habitat. Most eat seeds or other plant material. Many rodents live in societies with complex forms of communication, and can be monogamous, polygynous or promiscuous. The rodent fossil record dates back to the Paleocene on the supercontinent of Laurasia. (Full article...) Recently featured: Types Riot Voss (collection) Siege of Hennebont Archive By email More featured articles About Did you know ... Mariska Aldrich and her dog Fels ... that opera singer Mariska Aldrich had a prize-winning German shepherd (pictured) who excelled in police-dog competitions? ... that Salvadorans have the constitutional right to overthrow their government? ... that a medieval treasure hoard was found by a woman digging for worms to use as fishing bait? ... that August Wilson completed his ten-play Pittsburgh Cycle only months before his death? ... that Manuel Aguirre was the first Jesuit to become a naturalized citizen of Venezuela? ... that a steam plant in Alabama complied with emissions regulations simply by building a taller smokestack? ... that after founding a press bureau in Bukittinggi, Yunan Nasution was arrested, imprisoned, and upon his release was forbidden from staying there? ... that a counterfeit of an Angry Birds spinoff game was removed for containing malware? ... that in 2010, a Cool Moose Party candidate campaigned on abolishing the seat he was running for, and received almost 40% of the vote? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Landslide in Sarangani A magnitude 7.8 earthquake strikes the southern coast of Mindanao in the Philippines, leaving at least 37 people dead (landslide pictured). In Albania, the Flamingo Revolution erupts against a proposed tourism development project on the environmentally protected island of Sazan. In Myanmar, an explosion at a Ta'ang National Liberation Army base leaves 43 people dead. In Twenty20 cricket, the Indian Premier League concludes with Royal Challengers Bengaluru defeating Gujarat Titans in the final. Ongoing: Ebola epidemic Iran war (Lebanon war) Russo-Ukrainian war timeline Sudanese civil war timeline Recent deaths: Daniel Costelle Kanya King Alex Younger Chung King-fai Tomi Reichental Anthony Head More current events Nominate an article On this day June 9 Skyline of Hamilton, Ontario 1846 – Hamilton, Ontario (skyline pictured) is granted city status by the Parliament of the Province of Canada. 1856 – The first company of Mormon handcart pioneers left Iowa City for Salt Lake City, Utah. 1920 – The courtesan Wang Lianying was murdered in Shanghai, leading to months of media and literary coverage. 1965 – Fighting began between the Viet Cong and the Army of the Republic of Vietnam in the Battle of Đồng Xoài, one of the largest battles in the Vietnam War. 2010 – A child suicide bomber attacked a wedding in Nadahan, Afghanistan, killing at least 40 people and injuring at least 70 others. Philippe I, Duke of Orléans (d. 1701) Sarah Roberts (d. 1913) Jackie Mason (b. 1928) Pik-Sen Lim (d. 2025) More anniversaries: June 8 June 9 June 10 Archive By email List of days of the year About Today's featured picture Westward Ho! is an 1855 British historical novel by Charles Kingsley, set in the Elizabethan era and written in a mock Elizabethan tone. It follows the adventures of Amyas Leigh, who sets sail with Francis Drake and other privateers to the Caribbean, where they battle with the Spanish. Originally targeted at adults, Westward Ho! was deemed suitable for children due to its mixture of patriotism, sentiment and romance, and became a firm favourite of children's literature during the 19th century. Its popularity has reduced in the 21st century because of its anti-Catholicism and its racist attitudes towards indigenous peoples. This photograph shows the cover of an 1899 edition of Westward Ho! published by Frederick Warne & Co., with an illustration of two characters engaging in a sword fight. Illustration credit: possibly Walter Sydney Stacey; restored by Adam Cuerden Recently featured: Blue-billed white tern The Astronomer Jewellery chain Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements. Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues. Site news – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement. Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Reference desk – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics. Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikifunctions Catalog of computer functions Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles العربية Deutsch Español فارسی‎ Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 250,000+ articles Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú Български Català Čeština Dansk Eesti Ελληνικά Esperanto Euskara עברית Հայերեն 한국어 Magyar Norsk bokmål Română Simple English Slovenčina Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe Oʻzbekcha 50,000+ articles Asturianu Azərbaycanca বাংলা Bosanski کوردی Frysk Gaeilge Galego Hrvatski ქართული Kurdî Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Македонски မြန်မာဘာသာ Norsk nynorsk ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Shqip Slovenščina ไทย తెలుగు اردو Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1345340283" 346 languages Аԥсшәа Acèh Адыгабзэ Afrikaans Alemannisch Алтай тил አማርኛ Pangcah Aragonés Ænglisc Obolo अंगिका العربية ܐܪܡܝܐ الدارجة مصرى অসমীয়া Asturianu Atikamekw Авар Kotava अवधी Aymar aru Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه Башҡортса Basa Bali Boarisch Žemaitėška Batak Toba Bikol Central Bajau Sama Беларуская (тарашкевіца) Беларуская Betawi Български भोजपुरी Bislama Banjar ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ Bamanankan বাংলা བོད་ཡིག বিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরী Brezhoneg Bosanski Batak Mandailing Basa Ugi Буряад Català Chavacano de Zamboanga 閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Нохчийн Cebuano Chamoru ᏣᎳᎩ Tsetsêhestâhese کوردی Corsu Nēhiyawēwin / ᓀᐦᐃᔭᐍᐏᐣ Qırımtatarca Čeština Kaszëbsczi Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ Чӑвашла Cymraeg Dansk Dagbanli Deutsch Dagaare Thuɔŋjäŋ Zazaki Dolnoserbski Kadazandusun डोटेली ދިވެހިބަސް ཇོང་ཁ Eʋegbe Ελληνικά Emiliàn e rumagnòl Esperanto Español Eesti Euskara Estremeñu فارسی Mfantse Fulfulde Suomi Võro Na Vosa Vakaviti Føroyskt Fɔ̀ngbè Français Arpetan Nordfriisk Furlan Frysk Gaeilge Gagauz 贛語 Kriyòl gwiyannen Gàidhlig Galego گیلکی Avañe'ẽ गोंयची कोंकणी / Gõychi Konknni Bahasa Hulontalo 𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺 Ghanaian Pidgin ગુજરાતી Wayuunaiki Farefare Gungbe Gaelg Hausa 客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî Hawaiʻi עברית हिन्दी Fiji Hindi Hrvatski Hornjoserbsce Kreyòl ayisyen Magyar Հայերեն Արեւմտահայերէն Interlingua Jaku Iban Bahasa Indonesia Interlingue Igbo Igala Iñupiatun Ilokano ГӀалгӀай Ido Íslenska Italiano ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ / inuktitut 日本語 Patois La .lojban. Jawa ქართული Qaraqalpaqsha Taqbaylit Karai-karai Jju Адыгэбзэ Kabɩyɛ Tyap Kongo Kumoring Gĩkũyũ Қазақша Kalaallisut ភាសាខ្មែរ ಕನ್ನಡ Yerwa Kanuri 한국어 Перем коми Къарачай-малкъар کٲشُر Ripoarisch Kurdî Kʋsaal Коми Kernowek Кыргызча Latina Ladino Lëtzebuergesch Лакку Лезги Lingua Franca Nova Luganda Limburgs Ligure Ladin Lombard Lingála ລາວ Lietuvių Latgaļu Latviešu Madhurâ मैथिली Basa Banyumasan Мокшень Malagasy Олык марий Māori Minangkabau Македонски മലയാളം Монгол ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ ဘာသာမန် Moore मराठी Кырык мары Bahasa Melayu Malti Mirandés မြန်မာဘာသာ Эрзянь مازِرونی Nāhuatl Napulitano Nedersaksies Plattdüütsch नेपाली नेपाल भाषा Li Niha Nederlands Norsk nynorsk Norsk bokmål Novial ߒߞߏ IsiNdebele seSewula Nouormand Sesotho sa Leboa Nupe Diné bizaad Chi-Chewa Occitan Livvinkarjala Oromoo ଓଡ଼ିଆ Ирон ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Pangasinan Kapampangan Papiamentu Picard Naijá Deitsch Pälzisch पालि Polski Piemontèis پنجابی Ποντιακά Nawat پښتو Português Pinayuanan Runa Simi ရခိုင် Rumantsch Romani čhib Ikirundi Română Armãneashti Tarandíne Руски Русский Русиньскый Ikinyarwanda संस्कृतम् Саха тыла ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ Sardu Sicilianu Scots سنڌي Davvisámegiella Sängö Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Taclḥit တႆး සිංහල Simple English Slovenčina سرائیکی Slovenščina Gagana Samoa Anarâškielâ ChiShona Soomaaliga Shqip Српски / srpski Sranantongo SiSwati Sesotho Seeltersk Sunda Svenska Kiswahili ꠍꠤꠟꠐꠤ Ślůnski Sakizaya தமிழ் Tayal ತುಳು ᥖᥭᥰ ᥖᥬᥲ ᥑᥨᥒᥰ తెలుగు Tetun Тоҷикӣ ไทย ትግርኛ ትግሬ Türkmençe Tagalog Tolışi Setswana Lea faka-Tonga Toki pona Tok Pisin Türkçe Seediq Xitsonga Татарча / tatarça ChiTumbuka Twi Reo tahiti Тыва дыл Удмурт ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Українська اردو Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Tshivenda Vèneto Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt West-Vlams Volapük Walon Winaray Wolof 吴语 Хальмг IsiXhosa მარგალური ייִדיש Yorùbá Vahcuengh Zeêuws ⵜⴰⵎⴰⵣⵉⵖⵜ ⵜⴰⵏⴰⵡⴰⵢⵜ 文言 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gí 粵語 中文 IsiZulu Edit links This page was last edited on 25 March 2026, at 16:10 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Legal & safety contacts Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Main Page 346 languages Add topic